# SNHU-CS-465

**Architecture**<br />
When developing the frontend architecture for the Travlr app I initially developed the customer-facing site with Express which uses HTML to statically display information from the application's database. In addition to this customer-facing site there is also a Single-Page Application (SPA) built in Angular that displays the client-facing site for the client to be able to update the information contained in the database. The Express HTML is much more static in the information it deisplays since HTML cannot render dynamically, however this also leads to code that is less verbose and convoluted. The Angular SPA written in JavaScript however is able to dynamically render nad uses thsi ability to make the SPA able to display different information without needing to load additional pages. This funcitonality does however require more code that is compartmentalized in seperate files to keep the code organized. While both methods create a functioning web application the Express HTML site does not have the same amount of dynamic features that the Angular based SPA can provide for the user.
MongoDB was used as the database predominantly because of the JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format that is used to store the data within. Since JavaScript is the language used to build all other parts of the web application it is a simple process built into the language to create JSON formatted objects that can be saved within the database.

**Functionality**<br />
JSON is derived from JavaScript, and it contains information that is needed to operate the web application. JSON is passed from the frontend for requests and to add information to the database. JSON is what is stored in the MongoDB NoSQL database and it is also used to return requested information from the backend to the frontend.
In the process of developing this application I refactored the code a few times, first was the process of creating the SPA for the client-facing site. This process involved adding angular to the application and creating a new frontend to display the information and allow for access to the API endpoints. I also refactored some of the code to better flow through the login process so after logging in a user would see the trips listing page instead of a blank screen with the header where they would have needed to then click on trips to see the trips listing page. This was made possible by using reusable user interface (UI) components. With these reusable components it becomes easier to make these transitions between pages as one only needs to route a certain action to the correct page instead of having to build an entire new component to present information. In addition to this in any future development these components could be reused to make similar functioning components in other applications as these files can be copied into other programs as needed. This will help to speed up the development time of these future apps as these components are tested and are known to function correctly.

**Testing**<br />
Methods are what allow users to access API endpoints and API endpoints are what allows a user to interact with a web application. Testing these requires going through and testing the different methods that reach the endpoints to ensure that the methods work correctly and the endpoints are functioning correctly. Adding security helps to ensure that the endpoints are not allowing bad actors to access the application with devious intentions. Testing with security in place is more difficult as a correct token is required to allow access to the endpoint however this testing is integral to ensuring that endpoints still function and are accessible after security precautions have been implemented.

**Reflection**<br />
Going forward I am looking for positions as a software engineer, the skills I learned and refined in this course will be incredibly beneficial in understanding different frameworks and how they can interact and work together. In addition to this getting to build familiarity with the MEAN stack can be a big benefit with it's popularity in the industry as well as getting more experience with JavaScript and HTML. I have had very little exposure to these previously so getting to work with them for this project has been a great way to build experience with these languages. All of these new skills will help to make me a more well rounded developer with an even more diverse range of sklls and experience to draw from.
